Okay,
guys.
So let's start learning about events.
So we're actually going to start with worksheet events and worshipped events are basically
vb a code that gets triggered based on stuff that happened in your worksheet or to your
worksheet.
Okay.
So,
for example,
when you select a different cell in your worksheet when you de select your worksheets and
select another work sheet when you select your worksheet,
Okay.
And there are other events as well,
that can get VB a code triggered by Okay,
so let's see how we can start writing event procedures.
Basically.
So where do we write the this re be a code in order for all this magic to happen.
Okay,
so what do you need to do is to go to the value per tab on the ribbon and click on visual
basic.
Okay.
And then,
in order to write VB a code that would be executed based on stuff that happened in a
certain cheat or to a certain sheep,
you to double click on that sheet so you can see her.
We've got a workbook.
This cold worksheet events,
okay.
And they're the objects on the workbook.
Witcher.
There's there the sheets.
And there's this workbook which is really to too workbook events that we're going to speak
about a later on.
OK,
but what you need to do is to double click,
actually on the sheet that you need the events or the V B A coat too.
Execute or get executed based on stuff that happened in that work Sheep.
Okay,
so I need to write VB a code that would get executed based on things that would happen in
sheet one or two.
Sheet one.
OK,
so I'm going to double click on it here,
and what I need to do as well is in this drop down menu.
Instead of selecting General,
I need to select work sheep,
and you can see here that I've got some BB a code and this is actually a procedure an event
procedure that gets inserted here.
Okay,
So between the private sub and the end sub that gets guts inserted Ah,
automatically by excel,
you actually write your code,
the in that you need to be executed based on stuff that would happen,
Ok,
and actually,
what we're going to start with is the selection change event.
Okay,
so you can see here on this,
Um,
on this drop down menu,
you've got the selection change.
But you can choose any event that you would like.
Okay,
So the selection change event,
what it does is that it makes you able to execute VB a code based on selecting a different
cell in your worksheet.
Okay,
so whenever you select a different cell in your worksheet,
this code will be executed.
Okay,
so let's see how that works.
Okay.
So for example,
here,
I'm just gonna write a message box.
A very simple message box.
You have triggered a selection change event.
Okay,
This is a very simple message,
boss,
because I want to show you how it works.
Basically,
it's very simple.
You have a certain self selected at the moment.
Okay,
Select another cell,
and that gets triggered.
and the message box gets triggered,
or whatever code you write gets triggered.
Okay,
so it's very it's a very simple one.
guys.
So you probably noticed and have been curious about what's written between brackets here,
which is by Val Target as range on.
What that means is that you've got a parameter that is cool target.
Okay,
that has the object type of a range.
so it's it's it's a range object.
So it has all the properties and the message methods for a range object.
Okay.
And what the target range object refers to is that it refers to the cell that you would
select.
Okay,
So any cell that you select,
you can refer to it as target.
Okay.
And we're going to see how we can ah,
leverage that.
So,
for example,
let's say I want to have a message box that would tell me whenever a select a cell,
it would tell me the name of the cell the I selected.
So it told me you select to tell a to you selected Selby three.
Whatever.
Okay,
so I'll have a message box,
you have selected cell and then a space here,
and then I'll close the double quotes,
and then a 9% and then I'm gonna put target dot address.
Okay.
So what that will do is that you will just tell me what cell I selected,
remember?
Remember,
guys,
the target dot address property.
Okay,
So I've selected Selby six year and tells me selected Selby six here.
It tells me selected Cell J five and then sell Jay 11.
So whenever a select to sell,
it would just give me a message box telling me you have selected that cell,
Okay.
And,
ah,
you could see her that we've got the dollar signs here.
And we've everything absolutely.
On the reference so we can actually fix that by remember,
guys.
When we spoke about the inputs for the target address property,
we can actually make the rule.
Absolute falls.
And the column.
Okay,
so that we would have this appear in a more from the way.
So you have selected cell B six,
for example.
Okay,
So target refers to the cell that we have selected,
okay?
And you can see her that excel tells you the type of the object.
Okay,
that which is target.
so that you can know if you know that it's type is arranged.
So you know that it has old the properties on the methods of a range objects,
so you can deal with it accordingly.
Okay,
guys.
So let's do something else with our event here,
maybe I would like any cell that I would select in this worksheet to turn red.
Okay,
so I would write Target Don Interior,
Dr.
Color.
A guy equals V b red.
Okay,
so this way any cell that I would select in this worksheet would turn red.
how about if I want on Lee the cells that I would select in column A to turn red?
So how do we do that?
Okay,
so let's delete this line of code first roll,
and let's clear our read fillings here and let's go back.
And then we can actually use an if statement to do that.
Okay,
So if target dot column equals one,
then target dot interior dot color equals VB bread.
Okay.
And if so,
that what this will do is that if the color off,
uh,
I'm sorry if if the column of the target cell is equal to one and that means that it's in
column a the color of the cell will turn red.
Okay,
so if I select a song column B c whatever,
it will not turn red.
But if I selected in column A will turn right.
Okay.
So this is how you can use the worksheets.
Election change event Okay.
You can write any code that you would like to be executed between the private sub and and
the end Severe.
So any code that you would like Justus you're writing a normal procedure would work.
OK,
but it will work based on selecting another cell in your worksheet.
Okay.
So Ah,
that was its and thank you very much.
Rushing this video I'll see on the next one.